# Atliq-hospitality-power-bi-dashboard

Welcome to the AtliQ Grands Revenue Insights project ! In this project, I have implemented data analytics using Power BI to empower AtliQ Grands with the ability to make data-driven decisions, surpass competitors in the market, and drive growth in various aspects like Market Share & Revenue.
Business problem:
AtliQ Grands is the proud owner of numerous opulent hotels throughout India. Yet, AtliQ Grands finds itself experiencing a decline in both market share and revenue within the luxurious/business hotel sector. I, as a data analyst, figure out the key problem of declining revenue using data analytics.

Key Performance Metrics:
Revenue: — Measure the total revenue generated by AtliQ Grands.
Realization Percentage: — Calculate the percentage of actual revenue compared to the potential revenue.
Occupancy Percentage: — Analyze the percentage of occupied rooms to the total available rooms.
Average Daily Revenue: — Determine the average revenue earned per day.
Daily Booked Rooms per Night: Track the number of rooms booked on a daily basis.
Average Rating: — Evaluate the average customer rating for the hotels.
Data modeling:




Creating calculated measures:
ADR Calculate the ADR (Average Daily rate). It is the ratio of revenue to the total rooms booked/sold. It is the measure of the average paid for rooms sold in a given time period.

</pre>
```
ADR = DIVIDE( [Revenue], [Total Bookings],0)
```
</pre>

Realization % calculates the realization percentage. It is nothing but the successful “checked out” percentage of overall bookings happened.

</pre>
```
Realisation % = 1- ([Cancellation %]+[No Show rate %])
```
</pre>
RevPAR Calculate the RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room) RevPAR represents the revenue generated per available room, whether or not they are occupied. RevPAR helps hotels measure their revenue-generating performance to accurately price rooms. RevPAR can help hotels measure themselves against other properties or brands.

</pre>
```
RevPAR = DIVIDE([Revenue],[Total Capacity])
```
</pre>
DBRN calculates DBRN (Daily Booked Room Nights). This metric tells on average how many rooms are booked for a day considering a time period.

</pre>
```
DBRN = DIVIDE([Total Bookings], [No of days])
```
</pre>
DSRN calculates DSRN (Daily Sellable Room Nights). This metric tells on average how many rooms are ready to sell for a day considering a time period.
</pre>
```
DSRN = DIVIDE([Total Capacity], [No of days])
```
</pre>
DURN calculate DURN (Daily Utilized Room Nights). This metric tells on average how many rooms are successfully utilized by customers for a day considering a time period.


</pre>
```

DURN = DIVIDE([Total Checked Out],[No of days])
Revenue WoW change % indicates revenue change percentage week over week.

```
</pre>


<pre>
```

Revenue WoW change % = 
        Var selv = IF(HASONEFILTER(dim_date[wn]),SELECTEDVALUE(dim_date[wn]),MAX(dim_date[wn]))
        var revcw = CALCULATE([Revenue],dim_date[wn]= selv)
        var revpw = CALCULATE([Revenue],FILTER(ALL(dim_date),dim_date[wn]= selv-1))
        
        return
        
        DIVIDE(revcw,revpw,0)-1
        ```
</pre>

Occupancy WoW change % indicates occupancy change percentage week over week.







